you have one life don't settle for
mediocrity don't settle for mediocrity
and and I think the only like people
debate intelligence for example right we
talk about IQ tests and all that but I
think the only true test of intelligence
is if you get what you want out of life
and there are two parts to that one is
getting what you want so you know how to
get it and the second is wanting the
right things knowing what to want in the
first place I could want to be a you
know 6 fo8 basketball player and I'm not
going to get that so it's wanting the
wrong thing so that's wanting something
that you can't get that's Wan something
you can't get there also wanting
something that you don't want yeah
wanting something that's a booby prize
there are plenty of booby prizes out
there too right that that word in about
20 years yeah prizes that are just not
worth having or that create their own
problems well if you're not careful you
can end up in a place in life not only
that you don't want to be but one that
you didn't even mean to get to that's if
you're kind of proceeding unconsciously
uh how many people and usually I think
people end up there because they are uh
going on autopilot with sort of societal
expectations or people's expectations so
uh you know or out of guilt or out of
like uh mimetic desire you know Peter
teal has this whole thing from Rene
Gerard about how mimic desires our
desires are picked up from other people
uh and some of those are automatically
baked into society like you know go to
law school go to med school go to
whatever go to business school um or
they might be from watching what your
friends are doing and you know the other
monkeys are doing um or it might just be
you know what your parents expectations
are might be a guilt you know guilt is
just society's voice speaking in your
head so socially program so you'll be a
good little monkey and do things that
are good for the tribe um but I think
the the the best outcomes come when you
think it through for yourself and decide
for yourself and I don't think people
spend enough time deciding for example
we run on these uh fouryear Cycles you
know in Silicon Valley you go join a
startup you vest your stock over four
years that's the standard okay um uh in
uh uh College you know you go for four
years high school you go for four years
um some things take longer you know you
have children they hit puberty 9 years
later that's like a 9year cycle until
that relationship changes um but we're
used to these fairly long Cycles
multi-year cycles in which we are
committed to things you go to law school
you know four five year cycle you go be
a lawyer 40-year cycle these are very
long Cycles the amount of time we spend
deciding what to do and who to do it
with very short very very short right we
spend you know three months deciding one
month deciding on a job where we're
going to be for 10 years or 5 years and
because a lot of Discovery is path
dependent where the next thing you find
on the path is dependent on where you
were on the previous path you sort of
start going down this Vector that is a
very long distance people decide
frivolously which city to live in and
that's going to decide who their friends
are what their jobs are their
opportunity their weather their food
supply their Air Supply quality of life
you know it's such an important decision
but people spend so little time thinking
it through I would argue that if you're
making a four-year decision spend a year
thinking it through like really thinking
it 25% of the time yeah exactly there's
the secretary theorem I don't know if
you know that one computer after you've
done this many people pick the best one
of the next however man that's right
yeah yeah the secretary theorem is this
computer science Professor is trying to
figure out how much time he should spend
interviewing secretaries and then how
long to keep the secretary so let's say
he's going to have a secretary for 10
years does he keep searching for you
know one year two years 3 years one
month two months what is the optimal
time uh and it turns out that the
optimal time is somewhere around a third
about a third of the way through you
take the best person you've worked with
and try to find someone that good or
better so that by the time you've got
about a third of the way through you
have excuse me seen enough that you now
have a sense of what the bar is and then
anybody who meets or exceeds that bar is
good enough and this applies to dating
this applies to jobs and careers this
applies generally but the interesting
thing about the secretary theorem is
that it's actually not time based it's
not based on onethird of the time it's
iteration based the number of candidates
the number of shots you took on goal
that's right so you want to have lots
and lots of iterations so in that you
need to bail out quickly and you need to
be decisive quickly that's right you
need to you need to take opportunities
quickly and bail out quickly correct
like if you go back and you look through
failed relationships uh probably the
biggest regret will be staying in the
relationship after you knew it was over
exactly you should have left sooner the
moment you knew it wasn't going to work
out you should have moved on so in that
sense I think Malcolm Gladwell
popularize this idea of 10,000 hours to
Mastery I would say it's actually 10,000
iterations to Mastery it's not actually
10,000 it's some unknown number but it's
about the number of iterations that
drives a learning curve and iteration is
not repetition repetition is a different
thing repeating is doing the same thing
over and over iteration is modifying it
with a learning and then doing another
version of it so that's error correction
so if you get 10,000 error Corrections
in anything you will be an expert at it
don't partner with cynics and pessimists
you mentioned there about uh the people
who've got a nightmare going on at home
and are trying to fix the world but a
lot of the time that cynicism and
pessimism we find in ourselves we see
the world whether we want to whether
it's because we've imbibed what the news
or or the negative people around us have
said or it's a bit more kind of
endogenous than that it's just sort of
in us it's the way that we see the world
how can
people avoid cynicism and pessimism
within themselves yeah cynicism and
pessimism is a tough one it's we're
naturally hardwired for it again I go
back to Evolution I'm sorry to keep
harping on Evolution but within biology
there's very few good explanatory
theories and you know theory of
evolution by natural selection is
probably the best one so if you can't
explain something about life or
psychology or human nature through
Evolution then you probably don't have a
good theory for it and I would say that
pessimism is another one that comes out
of this which is in the natural
environment you're hardwired to be
pessimistic because let's say that I see
something rustling in the woods and if I
move towards in it and it turns out to
be food and prey then good I get to eat
one meal but if it turns out to be a
predator I get eat and that's the end of
that so we are hardwired to avoid ruin
um and and uh you know just dying so we
are naturally hardwired to be pessimists
but modern society is very different
despite whatever problems you may have
with modern society it is far far safer
than living in the jungle and just
trying to survive uh and the
opportunities and the upside are
nonlinear for example when you're
investing if you short a stock you the
most money you can make is 2x you just
lose you know if the stock goes to zero
you double your money but if the stock
is in next to Nvidia and it goes 100x or
a THX you make a lot of money so upside
through because of Leverage is nearly
unlimited uh also in modern society
because there's so many different people
you can interact with if you go on a
date and it fails they're infinite more
people to go on a date with in a tribal
system there might have been 20 people
and you can't even get through all of
them so modern society is far more
forgiving of failure and you just have
to sort of neoc cortically realize and
override that you have to realize that
you're much more running a search
function to find the thing that'll work
and then that one thing will pay off in
massive compounding once you find your
mate for the rest of your life you find
your wife or your husband then you can
compound in that relationship it's okay
if you had 50 failed dates in between
the same way once you find the one
business you're meant to plow into and
it compound returns it's okay if you had
50 small fail Ventures or 50 small fail
job interviews it doesn't the number of
failers doesn't matter and so there's no
point in being a pessimist it's you want
to be an optimist but I would say
you want to be you want to be skeptical
about specific things every specific
opportunity is probably a fail but you
want to be optimistic in the general in
the general you want to be like
something in here is going to work out
how do you navigate that
tension I mean exactly as I said I'm
optimistic in the general that if
something fails right now then this is a
little woooo but it wasn't meant to be
it was a learning experience it was an
iteration as long as I learned something
from it then it's a win if I didn't
learn from it then it's a loss but as
long as you're learning and you keep
ating fast and cutting your losses
quickly then when you find the right
thing you have to be optimistic and
compound into it so you don't want to
jump into the first thing you don't want
to marry the first person you date
necessarily unless you got very lucky um
but you you want to investigate and
explore very very quickly until you find
the match and then you have to be
willing to go all in you have to be
willing to move your chips at the center
of the table so both those uh both those
uh approaches are required so it's a bob
strategy it's sort of black or it's
white and most people are sort of stuck
in this gray bit and I'm like half in
but I'm kind of don't really know if I
am and I also think like labels like
pessimist Optimist cynic introvert
extrovert these are very self-limiting
humans are very Dynamic there are times
when you feel like being introverted
there are times when you feel like being
extroverted there are contexts in which
you'll be pessimistic there are contexts
in which you'll be
optimistic leave all those labels alone
it's better just to look at the problem
at hand look at reality the way it is
try to take yourself out of the equation
in a in a sense like obviously you're
involved but motivated reasoning is the
worst kind of reasoning uh you're not
going to find truth through highly
motivated reasoning you have to be
objective and objective means trying to
take yourself out of it as much as
possible or at least your personality
out of it as much as possible and so to
the extent you run with this thick
identity and personality it's going to
Cloud your judgment it's going to try
and lock you into the past if you say
I'm a depressed unhappy person yeah I'm
going to be unhappy that's a way of
locking yourself into your past even
saying I have trauma I have PTSD yeah
you you feel something there are
memories there are flashes there are
occasional bad feelings but don't Define
Yourself by it because then you lock it
into your identity and you're just going
to loop on it it's better to stay
flexible because reality is always
changing and you have to be able to
adapt to it adaptation is also
intelligence adaptation is survival
adaptation is kind of how you're here
you're here because you're an adapter
and your ancestors were adapters so to
adapt you you to see things clearly and
if you're seeing them through your own
identity it's going to Cloud your
judgment in other news this episode is
brought to you by function staying on
top of your health requires more than
just an annual physical which is why I
partnered with function they run lab
tests twice a year to track over a 100
biomarkers and monitor for early signs
of thousands of diseases they even
screen for 50 types of cancer at stage
one which is five times more data than
you get from an annual physical you
receive insights from a team of expert
phys Physicians Who provided detailed
written clinician summary for all their
observations and then phone
consultations for any critical findings
getting these lab tests done would
usually cost thousands but with function
it is only
$499 and right now you can get the exact
same blood panels that I get and bypass
their weight list by going to the link
in the description below are heading to
function health.com slod wisdom that's
function health.com slod wisdom thank
you very much for tuning in if you
enjoyed that clip with nval just a mere
taster the full length episode is
available right
here go on watch it